Labels/Triage for OpenSearch Core Repo (#11617)
opensearch-project/OpenSearch: TRIAGE.md

> # Triage in OpenSearch Core

Reviewer: I'd highly recommend looking at the security team's triage guidance [1], while the format is based off communicating how the triage meeting operates the FAQ format might be useful to highlight edge cases.

- [1] https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/blob/main/TRIAGING.md

> ## What Do We Do With These Labels Anyway?

Reviewer: The tone is a little casual to my taste, consider changing this title

Author: Sure. Whatever, man. ;)  
```suggestion
## Why are there Specialized Labels in Core?
```

Reviewer 2: We actually do have a style guide for the whole project in this regard: https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/main/STYLE_GUIDE.md#tone

> Across all repositories in opensearch-project, we have a process called “triage.” The goal of this process is to make sure repository owners and maintainers check new issues to understand them. First - we learn if the issue is security related (e.g. CVE), second - we understand if we have enough information to act on the issue, third - we re-label or respond on the issue. During triage we do not work on these issues, but instead just try to get the issue to a next step. Because the OpenSearch core repository (https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch) has so many different functions with different sets of contributors working on these functions, repo owners decided to treat these functions like separate repositories when triaging to get through the backlog faster and have more focus. There are a few maintainers that do triage in public (see https://meetup.com/OpenSearch to join) and there will be more coming.

Reviewer: Triage is described in the project wide guidance [1], what do you think about referencing that guidance and call out how this project is deviates?

- [1] https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RESPONSIBILITIES.md#triage-open-issues

> Here is an example of the workflow for a new issue in the core repo.

Reviewer: I think there should be a body of maintainers/contributors that agreeing to work in this way, not a generic example.

Note; I'm not part of any such team for core, so I triage on my own whims and timescales, otherwise I'd volunteer.

Author: Open to whatever the maintainers/other contributors want to do here. I haven't seen any other objections to date so this example remains. Can you suggest something more concrete? Not sure I understand what you mean. 

Thanks for taking on this review!

Reviewer: Any luck finding a first follower(s) on this topic? I am concerned about documenting a process in a document that no one follows.

Author: I agree. I'll post this to the Slack #maintainers channel and ask for folks to review this PR.

Reviewer 3: Personally, I side with @peternied here - we should leave the process(es) and workflow(s) up to repository maintainers to decide. The pace of changes varies greatly between repositories.

Author: I absolutely agree. No point in pushing a proposal that will be ignored. What's more important is the discussion and resolution. For clarity, @reta, this proposal is specific to the OpenSearch repo. 

Here's the challenge we have right now: There are 80 untriaged issues in the OpenSearch repo. There are >73 that were created more than 2 weeks ago: https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aopensearch-project%2FOpenSearch+label%3Auntriaged+is%3Aopen+created%3A%3C2023-12-19+is%3Aissue&type=issues. 

The triaging that's happening now in core isn't enough, IMO. Do maintainers agree?  

If so, how can the community help maintainers drive this down? Is there a better process to propose that maintainers can agree on?

Reviewer 3: > The triaging that's happening now in core isn't enough, IMO. Do maintainers agree?

That is very fair, we don't have triage meetings for core specifically but we should I think

Author: Thanks @reta. Are we back to the idea of a core public triage meeting, then? It may make sense to develop the process from there and maintainers can document the process used and decide on useful labels with the community there. @peternied, @reta, I can help set something like that up with you (I'm not a core maintainer so I would be open to facilitating and recommending, but the maintainers should determine the process).

Reviewer 2: @macohen You're trying to document the process that is currently being done, right? Much of this happens internally within Amazon teams, but some of it happens in open community meetings, but to date the actually process isn't documented anywhere in the open. Is that right?

Reviewer 3: > Thanks @reta. Are we back to the idea of a core public triage meeting, then? I

I would love to see that happening (it is going well for security / ml-commons / search relevance) but I do not see (personally, as of today) how we could make it work: there are many components (or subsystems) in there, search relevance is an example of cutting a small piece of the core and looking into it, but there are many others pieces. 

Having one meeting to go over the OpenSearch core is an option (we need at least few leads to be present there) - it may be efficient use of maintaners' time but not users times. Having N meetings (one per component or subsystem) is another option that has own pros and cons. 

Depending on the way we would like to approach the problem, the triaging rules may differ.

Author: > @macohen You're trying to document the process that is currently being done, right? Much of this happens internally within Amazon teams, but some of it happens in open community meetings, but to date the actually process isn't documented anywhere in the open. Is that right?

Right. I don't know what the process is across all repos and I think the process has recently become more confusing and unclear so I'm attempting a declarative document that says what should be. If it's the wrong declaration, then let's change the document, but let's document the right thing. And let's keep this specific to OpenSearch repo since that's where the complexity is. I would also say that we need to make this process public and I am even more certain that the maintainers should own it.

1. Every issue is created with an untriaged label by default.
2. No less than once per week, untriaged issues should be reviewed:
    1. Read through the issue to understand the request.

>         1. If the issue does not meet the template requirements, ask the requester for missing details and keep the untriaged label until all the details have been disclosed .

Reviewer: I think its important that 'untriaged' label don't linger, with this repro's high volume of incoming issues, I might recommend stronger guidance to close with a message such as "Thanks for filing - after reviewing this issue there are details missing that are needed to accept this issue and have closed this issue.  Please update the issue to the missing all details and re-open so we know to look at it again."

In the security repo we handle this by having a separate 'triaged' flag that is only added during the triage meeting.  Therefore anyone can quickly look at untriaged issues, remove the untriaged, and only during the open meeting are they accepted.  YMMV

Author: That seems like a fine line between building the community and continuing to have the problems we have, but I'm open to it. Would definitely like to hear from other maintainers on this one, but I can make the update.
```suggestion
        1. If the issue does not meet the template requirements, close the issue with a comment like: "Thanks for contributing - after reviewing this issue there are details missing that are needed to accept this issue and have closed this issue. Please update the issue to include X, Y, and Z re-open so we know to look at it again. We look forward to working with you on this." 
```

        2. Move to 3 if you have all the details on the associated issue.

> 3. If the issue does not impact the OpenSearch core repository, then transfer the issue to the appropriate team using the Transfer issue button on the lower right hand corner. If you don’t have the access to transfer, then you can add comment by mentioning [@opensearch-project/admin](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/teams/admin) to do the transfer for you. If not, move to step 4.

Reviewer: Is the @opensearch-project/triage team able to handle these requests?

Author: I don't think someone in the triage team can handle #3 unless they have maintainer status in both repos. Otherwise, I'd say they can. Are you suggesting that they do handle them? There are 120 people in that team today and I don't think all of them have eyes on this repo. Maybe maintainers or appointed label owners (could be one or more than one) who are contributors (not necessarily maintainers) to core could do this work.

4. Assign the labels as per the details of the ticket
    1. Overall request type - bug. enhancement, feature.
    2. Additional context like good first issue, wontfix, question, discuss, rfc ...etc. ([General guidelines for github triaging](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RESPONSIBILITIES.md#triage-open-issues))
    3. Make sure to enrich the issue with more details by adding your thoughts, add more context to the issue, or ask the author for more clarification if needed ...etc.
    4. Remove the untriaged label
    5. Add the component level labels based on TABLE 1

> 5. At any point a maintainer or issue owner can add or remove a label which will help clarify the work that needs to be done. This RFC will also become a markdown file in the OpenSearch repo and we will add a link to the issue templates in the repo so issue creators can reference this process to help it go smoother.

Reviewer: > This RFC will also become a markdown file in the OpenSearch repo and we will add a link to the issue templates in the repo so issue creators can reference this process to help it go smoother.

Should this be removed?

Author: YES! Thanks. Will do.

> TABLE 1

Reviewer: Lots of items manually included on this table, do we need this table?  What would you think about pointing folks to the labels in the project or the template so we don't have to keep this up to date?

Author: I'm not sure these labels stand alone in definition. They may need renaming or a reference. I agree that automation and simplicity would be better. If there was a way to have a description as metadata for a label then I think that could work better than a separate read me. Or if the labels were more self-describing.
